.\" +----------
.\" |
.\" |			       git.transition man page
.\" |
.\" |	       Copyright 1993-2008 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" |
.\" |	This file is part of GNUIT (GNU Interactive Tools)
.\" |
.\" |	GNUIT is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" | the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
.\" | Software Foundation; either version 3, or (at your option) any later
.\" | version.
.\" |
.\" | GNUIT is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" | WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" | FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
.\" | details.
.\" |
.\" | You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" | with GNUIT; see the file COPYING. If not, see http://www.gnu.org/licenses/
.\" |
.TH git.transition 1
.SH NAME
git.transition \- GNU Interactive Tools \- git transition script
.SH SYNTAX
.I git [arguments to gitfm]

.SH DESCRIPTION

The filemanager with GNU Interactive Tools (gnuit) is now called
.I gitfm

git.transition is a very small script that replaces /usr/bin/git.
The script warns the user of the rename, and then runs gitfm(1),
passing any supplied arguments.

git was renamed to gitfm to avoid confusion with Linus Torvalds'
content tracker, also called git.

.SH DEBIAN

If you wish to complete the transition early, install git-core
and (as root) use:

 update-alternatives \-\-config git

.SH SEE ALSO
gitfm(1)

git(7) (part of the git-core package on Debian, or see http://git.or.cz/)

.SH AUTHORS
.I Tudor Hulubei <tudor@cs.unh.edu>
.br
.I Andrei Pitis <pink@pub.ro>
.br
.I Ian Beckwith <ianb@erislabs.net> (Current maintainer)
