.\" +----------
.\" |
.\" |			      GITACTION man page
.\" |
.\" |	      Copyright 1993-1999, 2006-2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" |
.\" |	This file is part of GNUIT (GNU Interactive Tools)
.\" |
.\" |	GNUIT is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" | the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
.\" | Software Foundation; either version 3, or (at your option) any later
.\" | version.
.\" |
.\" | GNUIT is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" | WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" | FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
.\" | details.
.\" |
.\" | You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" | with GNUIT; see the file COPYING. If not, see http://www.gnu.org/licenses/
.\" |
.TH gitaction 1
.SH NAME
gitaction \- GNU Interactive Tools - per file type action script
.SH SYNTAX
.I gitaction
.I directory file
.br
.I .gitaction directory file

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I gitaction
is a script that executes a different action for each file type
specified. It is called by the
.I gitfm
program when pressing
.B F2
or
.B ^Xa
(see the
.B gnuitrc.TERM
configuration files in the
.I gnuit
manual). The first parameter is the current directory name and the second
one is the file name to be matched against the default patterns. The
matching is done using the shell 'case' statement.
If you press
.B F2
or
.B ^Xa
on a
.B "*.html"
file,
.I gitfm
will invoke a browser to view it, if you press
.B F2
or
.B ^Xa
on a
.B "*.tar.gz"
file,
.I gitfm
will list the tar archive contents, if you press the same keys on a
.B "*.gz"
file,
.I gitfm
will display its uncompressed contents on the screen, etc ...

If you press
.B F2
or
.B ^Xa
on a
.B "*.gif"
file or
.B "*.jpg"
file and you have the
.I zgv
utility installed, you will be able to see it. If you want to change
the gif/jpeg viewer, all you need to do is to change its name in the
.I gitaction
script. 

There are many more file types and viewers that
.I gitaction
knows about.
In addition, if you are running under GNOME, gnome-open is used, and on
MacOS, open(1) is used. see(1) and metamail(1) are also used as
fallbacks.

If all else fails, the file is displayed using
$GNUIT_PAGER. Feel free to change this. If you want to find out what the
default action for each file type is (or if you want to modify it), just
read/modify the
.I gitaction
script.

The script can be easily enhanced. Just read it.

The
.I .gitaction
script is a local version of the
.I gitaction
script. When started,
.I gitaction
tries to search a script called
.B .gitaction
in the current directory and, if it finds it, it starts it. If
.IR .gitaction 's
exit code is 0 (
.I .gitaction
couldn't find a matching pattern),
.I gitaction
starts its own case statement trying to match the current file name (the
second parameter) against its default patterns.

The
.I .gitaction
script *must* be executable. An example of
.I .gitaction
can be found in the directory gitfm is installed into.
(usually
.BR /usr/local/bin
or
.BR /usr/bin )
Debian users can find it in
.BR /usr/share/doc/gnuit/examples/ .
You should copy the example to the current directory or your home
directory and then modify it.


.SH BUGS

Please send bug reports to:
.br
.I gnuit-dev@gnu.org

.SH SEE ALSO
gitfm(1) gitps(1) gitview(1) gitmount(1) gitkeys(1) gitrgrep(1) gitunpack(1)

.SH AUTHORS
.I Tudor Hulubei <tudor@cs.unh.edu>
.br
.I Andrei Pitis <pink@pub.ro>
.br
.I Ian Beckwith <ianb@erislabs.net> (current maintainer).
