.\" +----------
.\" |
.\" |			  GITFM man page
.\" |
.\" |	      Copyright 1993-1999,2006-2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" |
.\" |	This file is part of GNUIT (GNU Interactive Tools)
.\" |
.\" |	GNUIT is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" | the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
.\" | Software Foundation; either version 3, or (at your option) any later
.\" | version.
.\" |
.\" | GNUIT is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" | WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" | FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
.\" | details.
.\" |
.\" | You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" | with GNUIT; see the file COPYING. If not, see http://www.gnu.org/licenses/
.\" |
.TH gitfm 1
.SH NAME
gitfm \- GNU Interactive Tools File Manager
.SH SYNTAX
.I gitfm
[options] [path1] [path2]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I gitfm
is a
.B file system browser
with some shell facilities which was designed to make your work
easier and more efficient.

The GNUIT package also contains
.I gitps,
an interactive process viewer/killer and
.I gitview,
a hex/ascii file viewer.

.PP
More extensive documentation on
.I gitfm
and the other
.B gnuit
tools is available in info format, try
.I 'info gnuit'.

.SH OPTIONS
A summary of options is included below.
For a complete description, see the Info files.
.TP
.B \-h
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-v
Show version of program.
.TP
.B \-c
Use ANSI colours.
.TP
.B \-b
Don't use ANSI colours.
.TP
.B \-l
Don't use last screen character.
.TP
.B \-p
Output the final path on exit

.SH NOTE
The main configuration file of the
.I GNUIT
package is
.B "gnuitrc.TERM"
where
.B TERM
is the value of the environment
variable
.BR "" ' TERM '
e.g for Linux console your environment contains something like
.BR "" ' "TERM=linux" '
so the configuration file name is
.BR "gnuitrc.linux" "."
You can (and should) have a configuration file for each terminal type you use.
If you customise git, the version of the config file in your home
directory should have a leading ".", eg
.BR ".gnuitrc.linux" "."

.SH FILE-SYSTEM BROWSER
.I gitfm
is made of two panels. The left one and the right one. Each
one contains a file system directory. You can browse the
directory tree with the usual cursor keys and pressing
.B ENTER
when you want to enter or leave a directory.
You may change the panels by pressing
.BR TAB .
See also
.BR "BUILT-IN COMMANDS" .

.SH INPUT LINE
Under the two panels there is a shell like input line which
you can use to type normal shell commands. The input line
supports unlimited characters and keeps a history of the typed
commands. gitfm uses the GNU history library for that.
See also
.BR "BUILT-IN COMMANDS" .

.SH WARNINGS AND ERRORS REPORTING
Under the input line there is a status bar. You can see there
the status of the currently executed command, the warnings and
errors and you will be prompted if a decision has to be taken.

.SH BUGS

Please send bug reports to:
.br
.I gnuit-dev@gnu.org

.SH SEE ALSO
termcap(5) terminfo(5) sh(1) ps(1) mount(8) umount(8) gitps(1) gitview(1)
gitaction(1) gitmount(1) gitkeys(1) gitrgrep(1) gitunpack(1)

.SH AUTHORS
.I Tudor Hulubei <tudor@cs.unh.edu>
.br
.I Andrei Pitis <pink@pub.ro>
.br
.I Ian Beckwith <ianb@erislabs.net> (Current maintainer)
