.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" +----------
.\" |
.\" |			  GITINTERNAL man page
.\" |
.\" |	      Copyright 1993-1999,2006-2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" |
.\" |	This file is part of GNUIT (GNU Interactive Tools)
.\" |
.\" |	GNUIT is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" | the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
.\" | Software Foundation; either version 3, or (at your option) any later
.\" | version.
.\" |
.\" | GNUIT is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" | WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" | FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
.\" | details.
.\" |
.\" | You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" | with GNUIT; see the file COPYING. If not, see http://www.gnu.org/licenses/
.\" |
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH GITINTERNAL 1 "Sep 30, 2007"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
gitwhich, gitmkdirs, gitxgrep \- Helper programs for gnuit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gitwhich
.I file ...
.br
.B gitmkdirs
.I path ...
.br
.B gitxgrep
.I grepcmd args ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.BR gitwhich ", " gitmkdirs " and " gitxgrep
commands.
These commands are internal to gnuit and should generally not be run directly.
.PP

.PP
.TP
.BI gitwhich " file ..."
gitwitch returns with an exit status of 0 if any of its \fBfile\fP arguments
exist in the PATH, otherwise it returns 1.
.TP
.BI gitmkdirs " path ..."
Creates the directory \fBpath\fP and any required parent directories.
.TP
.BI gitxgrep " grepcmd args ..."
Used as a helper script by \fBgitrgrep\fP(1), \fBgitregrep\fP(1),
and \fBgitrfgrep\fP(1). Calls \fIgrepcmd\fP, passing \fIargs\fP to it.
.PP
.BR gitwhich ", " gitmkdirs " and " gitxgrep
are part of \fBgnuit\fP, the GNU Interactive Tools.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gitfm (1)
.PP
\fBThese tools are documented fully in
.IR "GNU Interactive Tools" ,
available via the Info system.

.SH BUGS
Please send bug reports to:
.br
.I gnuit-dev@gnu.org

.SH AUTHORS
.I Tudor Hulubei <tudor@cs.unh.edu>
.br
.I Andrei Pitis <pink@pub.ro>
.br
.I Ian Beckwith <ianb@erislabs.net> (Current maintainer)

