.\" +----------
.\" |
.\" |			       GITMOUNT man page
.\" |
.\" |	      Copyright 1993-1999, 2006-2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" |
.\" |	This file is part of GNUIT (GNU Interactive Tools)
.\" |
.\" |	GNUIT is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" | the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
.\" | Software Foundation; either version 3, or (at your option) any later
.\" | version.
.\" |
.\" | GNUIT is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" | WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" | FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
.\" | details.
.\" |
.\" | You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" | with GNUIT; see the file COPYING. If not, see http://www.gnu.org/licenses/
.\" |
.TH gitmount 1
.SH NAME
gitmount \- GNU Interactive Tools - auto-mount script
.SH SYNTAX
.I gitmount device

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I gitmount
is a script which allows you to mount any block device without
specifying the file system type.  You may now insert the floppy in the
drive and type  '
.BR "gitmount fd0" '
and the first floppy will be mounted in the directory
.BR /mnt/fd0 .
On Linux just press
.B F11
or
.BR F12 .
You don't need to know the file system type anymore. The directories
.B /mnt/fd0
and
.B /mnt/fd1
are created if they don't exist.



.SH BUGS

Please send bug reports to:
.br
.I gnuit-dev@gnu.org

.SH SEE ALSO
gitfm(1) gitps(1) gitview(1) gitkeys(1) gitaction(1) gitrgrep(1) gitunpack(1)

.SH AUTHORS
.I Tudor Hulubei <tudor@cs.unh.edu>
.br
.I Andrei Pitis <pink@pub.ro>
.br
.I Ian Beckwith <ianb@erislabs.net> (Current maintainer)
