.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" +----------
.\" |
.\" |			  GITVIEW man page
.\" |
.\" |	      Copyright 1993-1999,2006-2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" |
.\" |	This file is part of GNUIT (GNU Interactive Tools)
.\" |
.\" |	GNUIT is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" | the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
.\" | Software Foundation; either version 3, or (at your option) any later
.\" | version.
.\" |
.\" | GNUIT is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" | WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" | FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
.\" | details.
.\" |
.\" | You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" | with GNUIT; see the file COPYING. If not, see http://www.gnu.org/licenses/
.\" |
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH GITVIEW 1 "Sep 30, 2007"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
gitview \- An ASCII/HEX file viewer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gitview
.RI [ -hvcblp ] " file"

.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B gitview
command.

\fBgitview\fP is an ASCII/HEX file viewer.  Use the `arrows', `PageUp',
`PageDown', `Home', `End', `^N', `^P', `^V', `ESC v', `Space' and
`Backspace' to move in the file, `^L' to refresh the screen and `F10',
`q' or `^X ^C' to leave.

.PP
More extensive documentation on
.I gitview
and the other
.B gnuit
tools is available in info format, try
.I 'info gnuit'.

.PP
You can change these keys, just read the GITVIEW-Setup,
GITVIEW-Color, GITVIEW-Monochrome and GITVIEW-Keys sections in the
configuration files \fBgnuitrc.TERM\fP.

.PP
.B gitview
is part of \fBgit\fP(1), the GNU Interactive Tools.

.SH OPTIONS
A summary of options is included below.
For a complete description, see the Info files.
.TP
.B \-h
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-v
Show version of program.
.TP
.B \-c
Use ANSI colours.
.TP
.B \-b
Don't use ANSI colours.
.TP
.B \-l
Don't use last screen character.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gitfm (1)
.PP
\fBgitview\fP and \fBgitfm\fP are documented fully by
.IR "GNU Interactive Tools" ,
available via the Info system.

.SH BUGS
Please send bug reports to:
.br
.I gnuit-dev@gnu.org

.SH AUTHORS
.I Tudor Hulubei <tudor@cs.unh.edu>
.br
.I Andrei Pitis <pink@pub.ro>
.br
.I Ian Beckwith <ianb@erislabs.net> (Current maintainer)
